{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 UIST 2009 Student Innovation Contest\
Pressure-Sensitive Keyboard Details\
\
http://www.acm.org/uist/uist2009/call/contest.html\
\
===============================\
\
DRIVERS:\
\
The keyboard uses an FTDI USB to Serial convertor chip (FT232R). \
\
You will need the FTDI driver.  This may automatically install on Windows Vista. However, if you can't get things working properly, try installing the correct windows drivers from the following URL (this was necessary for our Vista machine):\
\
http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/VCP.htm\
\
Mac, unix, windows CE, and other OS drivers are locked at the above URL as well.\
\
Once this is done, it will appear at a COM port under windows (e.g., COM5) and under Mac OSX as a device something along the lines of "/dev/tty.usbserial-A6007kFW"\
\
===============================\
\
COMMUNICATION DETAILS:\
\
115200 Baud\
8 data bit\
1 stop bit\
(1 start bit)\
No parity\
\
This is a common format known as 8-N-1\
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/8-N-1\
\
It is the default setting for most serial libraries.\
\
===============================\
\
WINDOWS USERS:\
 \
After installing the Virtual Com Port drivers, the keyboard will show up as a COM port (e.g., COM4).  http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/VCP.htm\
\
You may want to update the driver properties from the device manager to get better performance in \'93t\'94 mode. Change the buffer sizes to the smallest value (64?). There may also be a polling delay (or something similar) that can be lowered.\
\
Quick way to get talking to the keyboard:\
\
Use HyperTerminal (bundled with Windows XP, downloadable for newer versions).  Putty should work too.  See communication details above for connection settings.\
\
===============================\
\
MAC OSX (AND UNIX, LINUX) USERS:\
\
After installing the Virtual Com Port drivers for Mac OSX, the keyboard will show up as a device (e.g., /dev/tty.usbserial-A9007yHz).  http://www.ftdichip.com/Drivers/VCP.htm\
\
Quick way to get talking to the keyboard (using terminal.app):\
\
screen  /dev/tty.usbserial-XXXXXX 115200,cs8,-cstopb,-parity,-crtscts\
\
You will need to change the device name (e.g., tty.usbserial-A9007yHz) to what ever it is installed as on your system.  Look in /dev.\
\
===============================\
\
COMMANDS:\
 \
The keyboard sends data over a simulated serial port. One first plugged in, it sends a version message, and then waits for single character commands. There are two sets of commands: human readable ASCII, and binary. Here is a summary of the modes:\
\
s \'96 continuously reports (row, col) => value for each depressed key, Frames separated by a clear screen command\
\
S \'96 continuously reports for each depressed key in the following binary format:\
\
0xff keynum value kaynum value \'85 0x00 0x00\
\
Values can range from 0x00 - 0xfe.\
\
b \'96 sends all key values once in the following binary format:\
\
0xff val0 val1 \'85 val113\
\
Values can range from 0x00 \'96 0xfe.\
\
C \'96 same as b, but runs continuously\
\
c \'96 ASCII version, formatted for terminal emulators\
\
f \'96 same as c, but a faster version (less suitable for terminal emulators)\
\
In general, sending any character terminates a continuous mode. There are some undocumented modes. I would suggest using space or return to end continuous modes since these have no associated mode.\
\
===================================\
\
PROBLEMS?\
\
Contact: chris.harrison@cs.cmu.edu\
\
}