{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 IF YOU ARE HAVING LATENCY ISSUES:\
\
Note from Paul Dietz:\
\
I've been playing around with the firmware to improve performance. I've implemented two more modes, "s" and "S". These implement a faster scan method for bad cases. Small "s" is the ASCII version and "S" is the binary version. The format of the binary version is identical to the "t" mode. The ASCII version is similar to "q", but with some of the excess stuff stripped out. That one is easy to see with a terminal emulator...\
\
I've also been playing around with FTDI driver settings. I've found that some code can be very sensitive to the latency setting. The default is 16ms. I typically set it to 1ms, which may be a bit of a hog. Even setting it to 8ms seemed to clear up some issues I was having with dropped characters in multi-key situations.\
\
As it turns out, this is pretty easy to change on both Windows and Mac OSX. Under Vista, right click on Computer and choose Manage. When the Computer Management window opens, select Device Manager from the left pane. If the keyboard is plugged in, you should be able to find an entry for it under Ports (COM & LPT) of the form USB Serial Port (COMxx). Double click on that and then choose the Port Settings tab and press the Advanced button. At this window, you can change the latency timer from the default 16ms. I'd try 8ms first and go to 1ms if there are lost characters or long delays. The changes will take effect next time you open the port. You don't need to restart.\
\
On the Mac side, detailed instructions for changing the latency setting are here in section 3.4:\
\
http://www.ftdichip.com/Documents/TechnicalNotes/TN_105%20Adding%20Support%20for%20New%20FTDI%20Devices%20to%20Mac%20Driver.pdf\
\
- Paul}